#summary How to format the code

= Introduction =

In order for the source code to be consistently formatted despite contributor, we need to follow some style conventions. These conventions are inspired by Mono's [http://mono-project.com/Coding_Guidelines coding guidelines] and Microsoft's [http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms229042.aspx design guidelines], so they should be used as a secondary reference, but the rules on this page take precedence.

= Guidelines =

== Naming ==

 * Use standard C# naming conventions. 
 * Use *PascalCasing* for all public members and *camelCasing* for all private. 
 * Avoid using `_` and -. 
 * If additional private field indication is needed in addition to the casing, use the *this* keyword.

== Indentation ==

Mono use 8-space indentation, but this creates a lot of whitespace. 4-space indentation is the default setting in both Visual Studio and MonoDevelop, and due to this fact a more natural choice for the preferred indentation style in the monoxna source code.

== Spaces ==

Use a space before an opening parenthesis for loops and tests but not befor function calls, like this: 

{{{
Call(param);
index[0];
if (true) ...
while (true) ...
for (...) ...
}}}

This again differs slightly from Mono's setup but stays more true to Visual Studio's standard setup. 

== Brackets ===

Brackets should be placed on a new line for methods, loops and tests:

{{{
Method ()
{
    for (int i=0; i<10; i++)
    {
        ...
    }

    if (true)
    {
        ...
    }
}
}}}

Properties have their opening brackets on the same line. This applies to multiline *get* and *set* methods as well.

{{{
int Property {
    get { ... }
    set { ... }
}
int Property {
    get {
        ...
    }
    set {
        ...
    }
}
}}}

== Regions ==

Create regions around logical member groupings. 