#summary How can you help
#labels Featured

== Status of MonoXNA ==

Mono.Xna is in early stages right now, but the end goal is to allow XNA projects to be compiled and run on platforms other then Windows, without having to change any code. For more detail go the [Status] page.

== Project README ==

<pre>
Mono.Xna Contributing Guidelines
================================

1) Never decompile Microsoft binaries to see how they
   work. You cannot contribute if you've done this.

2) Create NUnit tests for everything that you can
   when contributing new code. All methods should be
   tested where possible. A seperate post will be
   written to explain how best to do that.

3) If someone says no, then no means no. They should
   give reasons why code isn't being accepted, if
   they don't, annoy them until they do. If reasons
   are given as to why code isn't being accepted, then
   the code will only be accepted once the relevant
   changes are made. Complaining about it won't help.

4) Have fun.
</pre>

== Contributing ==

If you wish to contribute to the Mono.Xna project, please take a look at the [Todo todo list], and let us know where you feel you can contribute on our mailing list. An irc channel is also available at #monoxna on the GimpNET irc server (irc.gimp.net) for contacting the developers directly.

*Patches can either be sent to the mailing list or attached to an issue.*

We are interested in recieving feedback on what areas we need to focus on implementing in the future. Such requests can be posted either as an issue in the google code project or posted in mailing list.

== Subversion access ==

MonoXNA's source code is kept in the Google Code subversion repository. For more informations click on the `Source` tab. 

Since this project needs more contributors we will give commit access to new developers after only a couple of initial patches.